Instructions for setting up the required tools
==============================================

Note: These Install Instructions are meant only for Ubuntu. The below steps are tested on Ubuntu 13.10 Virtual Machine.
For general installation instructions for any OS, follow the instructions in  'Installation_Instructions.rst'

1. Make sure 'python 2.7+' is installed on your machine and is set as the default python interpreter.
   Python can be downloaded from the following URL: https://www.python.org/downloads/
   Check the installation instructions on the website if you face any issues.
   In case of Windows OS, make sure you manually add the location of python installation directory to the PATH variable.

   Note: Python 3.0 or higher won't work. You will need python 2.7

   To check that python 2.7 is installed successfully, enter the command "python --version" in terminal. It should return as below.
   cmd:~$ python --version
   Python 2.7.5+

2. Download the project files from "https://github.com/scienceimpact/bibliometric" and extract it to a folder.

3. Open terminal and "cd" in terminal to the extracted project root folder. (Root folder is where README.rst file of the bibliometric project is present)

4. Run the automated install script in terminal "sudo ./install.sh". Enter the sudo root password when it asks.

Instructions to run the project
===============================

Note: More detailed instructions are provided in 'Installation_Instructions.rst' file. Below instructions are to run the project with default settings.

(It takes around 90-120 minutes to run the project with default settings. If you want to skip it, then the graph database generated by running the project is provided under 'Neo4j/default.graphdb' folder. Skip to the last instruction in step 8 in 'Installation_Instructions.rst' file. if you don't want to run the project.)

1. Open terminal and "cd" in terminal to the extracted project root folder. (Root folder is where README.rst file of the bibliometric project is present)
   Make sure that you have an active internet connection.

2. Add the project root folder to PYTHONPATH.
   In Linux, add PYTHONPATH to '~/.bash_profile' and then enter the command "source ~/.bash_profile" in terminal.

3. To run the project, enter the command "python main/main.py" in terminal.

